README.md, before:

# ShapeFlow Monitor

ShapeFlow Monitor is a cloud-based web application designed for analyzing and visualizing onShape log data. The application leverages Google Colab, Firebase, and onShape to provide a comprehensive and interactive dashboard for monitoring activity logs and document usage.

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Running the Project](#running-the-project)
- [Environment Configuration](#environment-configuration)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Development Tools](#development-tools)

## Features

- **Interactive Dashboards**: Visualize onShape log data through interactive charts and graphs.
- **Firebase Integration**: Store and retrieve data from Firebase.
- **Ngrok Integration**: Expose the application to the internet using ngrok.
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Log application events and errors to Firebase.
- **Cloud-Based**: Utilize cloud technologies such as Google Colab, Firebase, and onShape.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher installed on your local machine.
- Ngrok account and authentication token.
- Firebase database setup with appropriate credentials.

### Installation
#### Using Google Colab
1. **Open main.ipynb as a notebook in Google Colab**
2. **Run the notebook**: Click on the "Run" button to execute the cells.

#### Local Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/shapeflow-monitor.git
    cd shapeflow-monitor
    ```

2. **Create and activate a virtual environment**:
    ```sh
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    ```

3. **Install the dependencies**:
    ```sh
    pip install .
    ```

### Running the Project

1. **Set Up Environment Variables**:
    Create a `.env` file in the project root and add your ngrok authentication token and Firebase URL:
    ```env
    RUNTIME_ENVIRONMENT=dev
    DB_CONN_URL=https://your-firebase-db-url
    ```

2. **Run the Application**:
    ```sh
    python main.py
    ```

## Environment Configuration

The application supports different settings for development, testing, and production environments. Configure the `RUNTIME_ENVIRONMENT` variable in your `.env` file accordingly.

## Project Structure

```plaintext
ShapeFlow-Monitor/
├── app/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── app.py                   # Main application logic
│   └── dash_layouts.py          # Dashboard layout details
├── config/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── constants.py             # Configuration constants
├── database/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── handler.py               # Database handling logic
├── dataframes/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── dataframe_handler.py     # Dataframe handling logic
├── logger/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── database_logger.py       # Custom logging to Firebase
├── search_engine/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── search_handler.py        # Search engine logic
├── utils/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── utilities.py             # Utility functions
├── main.py                      # Entry point of the application
├── README.md                    # Project documentation
├── setup.py                     # Project setup script
└── .env                         # Environment variables (not included in repo)
```

## Scripts

* `python main.py`: Starts the application.

## Dependencies

- [dash](https://dash.plotly.com/): Web application framework for Python.
- [dash-bootstrap-components](https://dash-bootstrap-components.opensource.faculty.ai/): Bootstrap components for Dash.
- [firebase](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rest/database): Firebase integration.
- [flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/): Web framework for Python.
- [pyngrok](https://pyngrok.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): ngrok integration.
- [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/): Data analysis and manipulation library.
- [plotly](https://plotly.com/python/): Graphing library for making interactive charts.
- [beautifulsoup4](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/): Library for web scraping.
- [nltk](https://www.nltk.org/): Natural Language Toolkit.
- [requests](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/): HTTP library for Python.

## Development Tools

- [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html): Creation of virtual environments.
- [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/): Secure introspectable tunnels to localhost.
- [dotenv](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/): Reads `.env` files for environment variables.

Commit message:

1. Fixed bugs handling default log and selecting an uploaded log 2. Fixed issue with setup.py not parsing README.md correctly in local environment 3. Added default json to utils 4. Finished all WIPs from previous commit...

README.md, after:

# ShapeFlow Monitor

ShapeFlow Monitor is a cloud-based web application designed for analyzing and visualizing onShape log data. The application leverages Google Colab, Firebase, and onShape to provide a comprehensive and interactive dashboard for monitoring activity logs and document usage.

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Running the Project](#running-the-project)
- [Environment Configuration](#environment-configuration)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Development Tools](#development-tools)

## Features

- **Interactive Dashboards**: Visualize onShape log data through interactive charts and graphs.
- **Firebase Integration**: Store and retrieve data from Firebase.
- **Ngrok Integration**: Expose the application to the internet using ngrok.
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Log application events and errors to Firebase.
- **Cloud-Based**: Utilize cloud technologies such as Google Colab, Firebase, and onShape.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher installed on your local machine.
- Ngrok account and authentication token.
- Firebase database setup with appropriate credentials.

### Installation

#### Using Google Colab

1. Open **main.ipynb** as a notebook in Google Colab
2. Run the notebook: Click on the "Run" button to execute the cells.

#### Local Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/EyalMK/ShapeFlow-Monitor-Cloud.git
    cd shapeflow-monitor
    ```

2. **Create and activate a virtual environment**:
    ```sh
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    ```

3. **Install the dependencies**:
    ```sh
    pip install .
    ```

### Running the Project

1. **Set Up Environment Variables**:
    Create a `.env` file in the project root and add your ngrok authentication token and Firebase URL:
    ```env
    RUNTIME_ENVIRONMENT=dev
    DB_CONN_URL=https://your-firebase-db-url
    ```

2. **Run the Application**:
    ```sh
    python main.py
    ```

## Environment Configuration

The application supports different settings for development, testing, and production environments. Configure the `RUNTIME_ENVIRONMENT` variable in your `.env` file accordingly.

## Project Structure

```plaintext
ShapeFlow-Monitor/
├── app/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── app.py                   # Main application logic
│   └── dash_layouts.py          # Dashboard layout details
├── config/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── constants.py             # Configuration constants
├── database/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── handler.py               # Database handling logic
├── dataframes/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── dataframe_handler.py     # Dataframe handling logic
├── logger/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── database_logger.py       # Custom logging to Firebase
├── search_engine/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── search_handler.py        # Search engine logic
├── utils/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── utilities.py             # Utility functions
│   └── firebase_curator.sh      # Script to wipe all data in Firebase
│   └── teamA.json               # Default json data - Provided by course instructors.
├── main.py                      # Entry point of the application
├── README.md                    # Project documentation
├── setup.py                     # Project setup script
└── .env                         # Environment variables (not included in repo)
```

## Scripts

* `python main.py`: Starts the application.

## Dependencies

- [dash](https://dash.plotly.com/): Web application framework for Python.
- [dash-bootstrap-components](https://dash-bootstrap-components.opensource.faculty.ai/): Bootstrap components for Dash.
- [firebase](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rest/database): Firebase integration.
- [flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/): Web framework for Python.
- [pyngrok](https://pyngrok.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): ngrok integration.
- [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/): Data analysis and manipulation library.
- [plotly](https://plotly.com/python/): Graphing library for making interactive charts.
- [beautifulsoup4](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/): Library for web scraping.
- [nltk](https://www.nltk.org/): Natural Language Toolkit.
- [requests](https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/): HTTP library for Python.

## Development Tools

- [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html): Creation of virtual environments.
- [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/): Secure introspectable tunnels to localhost.
- [dotenv](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/): Reads `.env` files for environment variables.
